# Designing for Data Informed User Experience 
## Module 1: Dynamic Data

### Data 101

#### What is Data?

Data is a broad concept - any piece of information can be defined as data. The information that your senses take in - vision and hearing - can be called “sense data”. Here we will look at a more specific definition of data, as it relates to the web and networked computing. Data is any structured representation that a computer can read and process. 

#### Why does Data Matter?

Data matters because it is how computers represent the world. A critical understanding of data is important because our lives are increasingly represented as - and lived through - digital data. Data is also a powerful resource for creation and production. Making things on the web involves working with complex, dynamic, structured data. New tools, applications, and forms of creative practice are emerging where data is central.

#### Data and the Modern Web

The web’s basic language - HTML - is based on a concept of linked documents. It adopts many conventions from printed documents and the notion of the page. However on the modern web the “page” is increasingly dynamic and data-driven. A page on a social media service is a dynamic layout of content, based on a constantly changing set of data. A content management system like Wordpress is essentially a way to create web sites based on tables of data. A web application like eBay or Spotify is an interface linking a vast number of users to a huge reservoir of data. Data is at the core of the modern Web. Many web services and applications make data available to others. Data is published via an API - Application Programming Interface - more on those later.

#### Modeling the World with Data

We use computers to represent things and solve problems in the world; but computers can only represent the world through data, in a highly structured way. We can use data to model the world - to make an abstract, simplified representation of something real - so that a computer can deal with it.

How could a computer model something real - like a person? Here are three different data models for the same person:

A
```
Name: Jane Smith  
Date of Birth: 02/08/1983  
Phone: 0455 455 555  
email: janesmith_777@hotmail.com  
```

B
```
ID: 1034893  
Gender: Female  
DOB: 02/08/1983  
Height: 178.5 cm  
Weight: 68.1 kg  
Immunised: TRUE  
```
C
```
realName: Jane Smith  
email: janesmith_777@hotmail.com  
userName: secretSquirrel83  
password: NemoTheTurtle1998  
logins: 107  
```

Each one records different details, and would be useful for different purposes and contexts. Note that even if all the information is accurate, none of them is a complete or perfect representation! Data models are partial representations of the world. Data models are also

- discrete - structured in clearly defined pieces
- explicit - information is clear and concrete
 

### Categories of Data

We can define several different categories of data - these are shown in the example above:

**Qualitative** - data describing qualities or non-numerical features. Immunised in B is a qualitative feature. Qualitative data can be:

- Categorical - describing a finite set of categories. For example Gender in B might have categories for “Male” and “Female”. But is this a good representation of gender? 

- Some qualitative data is not categorical! For example Name in A

**Quantitative** - data that describes quantity in numerical form. For example, Height and Weight in B are quantitative. Quantitative values can be
- Discrete - counting in whole units. For example model 3 has a count of user logins.

- Continuous - a measure of a continuous value, such as height or weight in model 2

Further reading - for another view on some of these concepts, check out [What is Data?](http://schoolofdata.org/handbook/courses/what-is-data/) on the School of Data website.

 