In code, data comes in three basic types:

#### Boolean

Boolean values are the simplest possible data. They can only have two values: TRUE and FALSE. Boolean data is useful for representing features that can only be true or false.
Boolean values are the simplest possible data. They can only have two values: `TRUE` and `FALSE`. Boolean data is useful for representing features that can only be true or false.

#### Numbers

Quantitative data is represented as a number. Numerical data comes in two flavours:

- **Integers** are whole numbers, used to represent discrete data - useful for counting whole units. 1, 17, 9000 and 987659847698564 are all integers - but 3.14 is not!
- **Floating point numbers** (or “floats”) are used to represent continuous values - any number that is not always whole units. 1.23, 859387.1 and 0.00001 are all floating point numbers
- **Floating point numbers** (or "floats") are used to represent continuous values - any number that is not always whole units. 1.23, 859387.1 and 0.00001 are all floating point numbers

#### Strings

A string is simply a sequence of characters. Strings can be short - like “hello” - or long. We could represent a whole novel as one big string. In code, strings are always enclosed “in quotes”. These are all strings:
A string is simply a sequence of characters. Strings can be short - like `"hello"` - or long. We could represent a whole novel as one big string. In code, strings are always enclosed `"in quotes"`. These are all strings:

`“Jane Smith”`
`“http://www.google.com”`
`“#ff05aa”`
`“10/5/2015”`
`“146.26E, 48.32N”`
`"Jane Smith"`
`"http://www.google.com"`
`"#ff05aa"`
`"10/5/2015"`
`"146.26E, 48.32N"`

Note that strings can represent lots of different kinds of data. In the example above strings are used to encode a name, a URL, a hex colour value, a date, and a location (latitude/longitude). Note also that strings can include numerical values, as well as multiple values and parts (such as the day, month and year in the date).
