# Designing for Data Informed User Experience 
## Module 1: Dynamic Data

## Data Structures 

We can build more complex structures from numbers and strings, in order to represent more (and more complex) data. In this unit we will work with two basic but very powerful data structures.

#### Arrays 

An array is simply a list of values. Any time we need to store or represent more than one thing, we need an array. For example: Jane Smith has three pets. We could list them like this:

`[“Cat”, “Dog”, “Turtle”]`

This is an Array of strings. Note the square brackets around the array, and the commas to separate each value. We can tell these are strings because of the “quote” marks.

Jane tracks her exercise with a mobile app that counts her workouts each day. Here’s one week’s worth of data:

`[0,0,1,0,1,2,0]`

This is an Array of Integer numbers (whole values - because you can’t do 0.5 of a workout).

Jane also tracks her dog’s weight once a month, and records the results in kg. Here’s one year of data as an Array of Floats:

`[18.6, 18.8, 19.3, 19.1, 18.8, 17.8, 17.4, 17.5, 17.7, 17.8, 17.9, 18.2]`

 

#### Objects

Arrays let us store lists of data, but as these examples show, strings and numbers by themselves are pretty limited in what they can represent. For example what if Jane wanted to store more than just the animal info for her pets? Objects give us a way to group multiple related pieces of data together into a bundle. Here’s an Object that represents Jane’s cat

````
{

      name: “Mr Fluffy”,

      animal: “cat”,

      age: 7,

      weight: 9.8,

      immunised: TRUE

}
````

An Object lets us join all these pieces of data together into a single bundle. It also provides a way to label the data, which makes it easier to read. Each piece of data has a name and a value. Note that we can inclue different kinds of data in one object - this object has two strings, one integer, one float and one Boolean value. Note also that the name and the value are separated by a colon ":" and each name / value pair is separated by a comma. This data is in JSON format - more on this format later.

One Object by itself is pretty limited. How would we store multiple objects? You already know: in an Array. An array is a list of values: those values can be numbers, strings, or objects!

Here’s an Array of Objects. Here we are writing each object on a single line. Note once again that Array is wrapped in square brackets, and each element is separated by a comma.

````
[    

      { name: “Mr Fluffy”, animal: “cat”, age: 7, weight: 9.8, immunised:true},

      { name: “Bowser”, animal: “dog”, age: 2, weight: 4.0, immunised:true },

      { name: “Nemo”, animal: “turtle”, age: 17, weight: 1.2, immunised:false },

]
````
 
