# Designing for Data Informed User Experience 
## Module 1: Dynamic Data

### Arrays and Objects

Before we start: make sure you are familiar with the Javascript console in your browser. 

In this resource you will be using the console to try out the concepts discussed along the way.


#### Arrays in JavaScript

```var myArray = ["apple", "banana", "pineapple", "pear"];```

This line defines a new array called myArray. To access an element in this array we can look it up by index (or number). Remember, arrays start counting at 0, so the first item is element 0, the second is element 1 and so on. Note the syntax: square brackets, commas between each element, and a semicolon to finish the line.

```myArray[0] returns "apple"```

```myArray[2] returns "pineapple"```

**Try it in your browser console. Create the array by entering the line above. Enter 1myArray[0]1 and the console will return the value. Try the other numbers too - what happens if you enter `myArray[99]?`** 

Note that we can also set these values with Javascript.

```myArray[0] = "kiwifruit";```
This sets the first element in the array to a new value. Enter myArray in the console and it will print the whole array - notice the change? Try changing other values. We could even add a new value to the end - try `myArray[4] = "watermelon"`;

There’s a lot more we can do with arrays in JS, but for now just two more things. First, arrays can be heterogeneous - in other words, contain different types of things. For example

```var myWeirdArray = ["a string", 45, FALSE, 2.23]; ```
This array contains a string, two numbers and a boolean value - pretty weird but JS doesn’t mind! Try it in your console, and try adding and changing the values.

In fact JS is even happy to put arrays in arrays :

```var inception = [ ["A", "B"], [ "X", "Y"] ]```

Each element in this array is also an array! so

```inception[0]```

returns

```["A", "B"]```

But how do we get to the individual elements? Try

```inception[0][0]```

Why does this work? Try various combinations in the console. Arrays of arrays are called multidimensional arrays (yes, as many dimensions as you want). How would you add another array to the end of inception?

##### Recap
Arrays hold lists of values, and we can access them by index. We can also change their values and add new values. Arrays can hold different kinds of elements, and arrays can even hold other arrays! Make sure you are familiar with creating, accessing and modifying arrays using the console.


#### Objects in JavaScript

Let’s work with objects in the same way. Create a new object in your console like this:

```var myObj = { name: "Fred", animal: "fish", age:7 };```

Remember an object is a bundle of data, complete with names or labels. Again note the syntax:  
-object enclosed in curly braces
-names and values separated by a colon
-each name/value pair separated by a comma

We can access the data using dot notation. Try

```myObj.name```

Notice that

```myObj["name"]```

also works (here we are talking to the object as if it’s an array). Try the other properties too. Once again we can also set properties using this notation. Try

```myObj.name = "Frances"```

We can also create new properties the same way - try

```myObj.weight = "100g"```

Then enter `myObj` to see the modified object.


#### Objects and Arrays - Together at Last!

Objects can store any kind of data at all - the object above has strings and a number. But objects can even store arrays:

`var myObj = { name: "Fred", 
  animal: "fish", 
  friends: ["Nemo", "Marlin", "Dory"] 
};`

Now

```myObj.friends```

is an array! How would we get to say the first element in that array? `myObj.friends[0]`. Try it in the console.

Objects can also store other objects:

```var myObj = {  name: "Fred",
               animal: "fish",
               length: {value: 11, units: "cm"},
               weight: {value: 87, units: "grams"}
            };
```
Notice how objects let us store related information together - here we can store both a value and a unit of measurement in one object. How would we access the weight value? `myObj.weight.value`

Finally, back to arrays. Because Arrays can store any kind of data, right? So they can also store objects. Here’s an array of objects from Data 101.
```
var myPets = [    
   { name: "Mr Fluffy", animal: "cat", age: 7, weight: 9.8, immunised:true},
   { name: "Bowser", animal: "dog", age: 2, weight: 4.0, immunised:true },
   { name: "Nemo", animal: "turtle", age: 17, weight: 1.2, immunised:false }
];
```
You can paste this into your console. Now, using the principles above, how would you access the second object in the array? Now how would you access Bowser's weight value?